---
layout: post
title: Ruminations on My Long and Sordid Marriage to Diet Coke
---

When I was a small child, I loved Minute-Maid Orange Soda.

Remember that stuff? When it was in the black can with the oranges on it? That was the stuff. As I have a tendency to overdo everything, I got to a place where I was drinking three or four of them a day, and I decided about the time I graduated from middle school that this just would not do.

I hated hated _hated _diet soda of any kind, especially Diet Coke, but I knew that in order to drink soda the way I wanted to, I would have to make the painful switch if I didn't want to catch diabetes and weigh four hundred pounds.

So I did what any reasonable young man trying to develop a taste for aspartame would do. I forced myself, over the course of a week, to drink warm Diet Coke from a two-liter bottle, until that Sweet™ became my tongue's interpretation of "Sweet."

I was headed in the wrong direction, and had to cut myself off, and find a new lover, and I did.

Over the course of the many years that followed, I forgot all about what was so good about corn syrup water in the first place. I couldn't even swallow down more than a sip without feeling full. Diet cola became the elixir of the gods, the most delicious and refreshing thing I could ever imagine. And Diet Pepsi took center stage.

The reason for the Diet Pepsi was mostly because my parents stocked the refrigerator with it, being Pepsi-cola drinkers themselves.

Over the course of a few years, I found myself becoming a very discerning Diet Pepsi drinker. "Light, Crisp, and Refreshing" was my mantra. I chose Diet Pepsi over Diet Coke whenever prompted.

Then, one day, something very odd happened. I discovered that over the previous six months, whenever I had been faced with "the decision" at the convenience store cooler, I had chosen Diet Coke... To this day, I still can't quite tell you how it happened, but it was as if literally one night I went to sleep a Diet Pepsi man, and woke up a Diet Coke man. Perhaps it was the sleek rendering of the female body they use for a bottle, or perhaps they were still putting cocaine in their product.

As the years wore on, my consumption of this non-calorie beverage reached dangerous proportions, and I had become so violently addicted to it, that any other beverage, including water (which I need to live), became just a waiting-room holdover, as I anticipated my appointment with Dr. Diet Coke.

This had to stop, and I'd become aware of some discouraging studies about aspartame, and I wanted to do something about the various chemicals I was putting in my body through American industrial agriculture. I could no longer eat the organic, local, farm-raised meal and wash it down with a canister of chemical sludge.

I needed a strategy, so I thought I'd go right back to the beginning...

I moseyed on over to Publix, and walked straight to the Coke aisle. I proceeded to purchase every size and shape container of Diet Coke in the store, including several twelve-packs of cans, and the oh-so-wonderful glass bottles.

For the following week, I did a few things, but mostly I just continuously drank Diet Coke. By the end of the week, I could really taste it for the toxic waste that it was. As I poured the remaining gulps of cold, crisp, taste-bud melting science experiment down my gullet, I said goodnight to my old friend, and I took him for that last long walk into the woods.

Since I've given up Diet Coke, I have to say, I feel better, physically and psychologically. I also have found a suitable replacement in raspberry and/or lemon-lime and/or cranberry seltzer water.
